In this video, we will learn how to combine different levels of detail in one single visualization.
So we had the problem that I had to change between the regions and the countries
and this wasn't really comfortable,
let's select the right visualization first. What we want to do is we would like to be able to have the country
and the region information in that chart without having to change the axis
again and again. Now we can do this by adding a hierarchy,
now let's simply add one to see what that is.
So to do this, we simply go to the fields column right here and in that fields column, we now right-click
on to the region name, like this. In that menu that opens now, we can click onto new hierarchy right
here
and now we can see that we created that new hierarchy below our initial column right here. In that hierarchy,
we only have the region name at the moment
but the good thing is if we now select the country right here and drag it into that hierarchy, it is
added
and this is the great thing,
it doesn't change the initial columns, so we have the country and the region name but in that new
hierarchy, we have the same two data.
So what can we do with that now?
Well let's first select the hierarchy like this and unselect the region name because you can see that
the hierarchy right here is now in the axis area,
so I will delete the region name. So far, our visualization looks the same way it did before,
so if we click here, the other visualization changes,
if I click again it changes back,
so nothing new. Well that's not true right
because if you look onto the top of the visualization, we have some more buttons or some new buttons
actually.
Now what are those buttons doing?
Well let's press some of those buttons. So we can for instance press this button here,
let's see what it says.
It says go to the next level in the hierarchy,
let's try out what that is, like that and now it gets interesting right because now we have a more detailed
level of the information that we have.
So we now have the population data for the different countries
and if I scroll through right here, you can see that we have the information for all of the countries that
we have in our dataset.
Now this is nice but how can we get back to our region level then?
Well this is also really simple because we only have to go up here and click onto that arrow, so we got
that
and another interesting information is that if we now go to that data drill ribbon, you remember I said
that you should ignore that for the moment
when we talked about it in the interface video, then you have the same options right here.
You can go to the next level and drill up.
Now we also got that drill down,
let's click it, something changes
in the visualization, let me click it again,
so it's this button right here,
click to turn on drill down.
Well let's click that
and see what happens or no before we do that,
let's click on the button right here again, like this
and as you can see, nothing changed so far, didn't have an impact.
So maybe focus on to Australia and Austria now, just a quick tip.
So let's go back to the previous hierarchy level
but now we activated that drill down,
so if I now press on to one single area in that chart, right here for instance, then this looks different
right
because if you now look to Austria, this is still here but Australia is gone
and why is it gone.
Well because we only see the countries that are in Europe now,
isn't that interesting?
With that drill down functionality, we can define that we can also go to a more detailed level in that
chart for single elements of that chart,
in that case, the region Europe.
So if we go back right here and click on to Asia for instance, we have the same thing for Asia
and that's the really great functionality of that hierarchies and of the drill down function of course.
So we added an additional element to our visualization but what if you would like to limit the hierarchy
levels?
Well you can do that simply if you go to the fields column and you can see that we now enabled both
hierarchy levels,
so the region name and the country name. If you unselect the country now, then you cannot drill down
to the country level.
In our case, this doesn't make a lot of sense because we only have two hierarchy levels, so we can
re-select it
but if you would have more levels, then you can limit the amount of levels that you want to be displayed
right here.
So we got that, let's enable the drill down and click right here.
So we now have that visualizations and we added a lot of functionalities already,
the only thing that I don't like right now is the formatting.
So I think it's time to take a quick look at what formatting options we actually have in Power BI
desktop.
Let's do that in the next video.